la what are you doing come inside this
minute you have to get dressed for your
sister's wedding don't mean ma a
suitable boy
it's an extraordinary tale of love and
friendship
that Vikram sait has woven very much
from the stuff of our lives if the
stories about Lata Mara and mrs. Rupa
Mehra base in the 1950s India and let us
journey to find herself and like
suitable boy for yourself I don't think
I ever want to get married what are you
going to do become a nun the other
strand of love in this is that of a
young wastrel of his name is man his
love affair with a courtesan leads to
one of the great complications in this
book he's a very passionate young man
also that becomes his undoing
so you got by she's an emotionally rich
person because of the life she has led
she is broken but she's also very strong
she sort of transmutes everything
through her music into something really
beautiful along with a personal journey
of of these characters namely Lata and
parallel Iman it's essentially about the
journey of India coming into its own a
suitable boy is one of my favorite
novels practically since the day it was
written in the 90s this fat book came
out of a very tiny seed it was a bit of
conversation that I heard on a bus in
eastern you pee in India and it was a
mother telling her daughter you know you
got to marry some man chosen by me as
well you too will marry a boy I choose
and of course this led to the idea that
it should begin with a wedding I never
thought it would lead to something
like this bookcase which involves the
countryside and land reform this is a
great and long needed reform the first
Indian general election and religious
conflict and all these large themes ask
the craftsmen Andrew Davis managed to
keep the richness of the book and not
lose anything he's done it brilliantly
he really is and he's I think he's
worked with vikram and mira on this but
it's a real feat in terms of managing to
do that the adaptation process was was
pretty difficult there's such a lot of
story that's what's really cool about
his rating is that a lot of scenes are
very very concise but they see a lot and
they're very telling of the characters
in this state of mind by concentrating
on those two characters Lata and man and
kind of restricting ourselves to aspect
the story that concern either one or the
other
that was the guiding principle we chose
I'm engaged to a girl from Banaras but I
try not to think about it's been such a
joy working on it
Mira D is absolutely phenomenal she is
the best director that anybody could ask
for
she's so clear in what she wants I read
a suitable boy as a novel in 1994 I just
vowed to direct the film of it so I made
my own microcosmic response to suitable
boy which was my film monsoon wedding I
wanted one person to do all six parts so
that the vision of it would remain that
one person it really gives me
extraordinary pleasure and pride to have
the privilege of directing a suitable
boy because it is something that has
inspired me so much Mira has that
ability to bring life the humor the
sadness the tension of ordinary people's
lives into high relief I have a hundred
and thirteen actors in a suitable boy I
have six hours to let this story unfold
and it's the way to make this film
because it is not something that should
be squeezed in you know it needs to
unfold in that unfolding of both the
drama and the humor and the tragedy and
the music I I just want to bring you to
a time which maybe in 1950 but could
very well be today
[Music]
you